Update RURQ -- Added Editorial (#1037)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/5_Plat/RURQ.mdx

	</Resource>
</Resources>

### Solution - Range Updates & Sums

<Spoiler title="Solution">

This question asks you to support the following types of queries. 

-	Add a value to all elements within the range $[a,b]$.

-	Set all values within the range $[a,b]$ to a certain value. 

-	Find the sum of all values in range $[a,b]$.

Consider the first two types of queries, a lazy tag will be created in each node of the tree for each type. In this solution, $lzAdd$ will represent the lazy tag for the range add query and $lzSet$ will represent the lazy tag for the range set query. 

Given the two different update queries, a total of four different situations might take place as a result of any update. 

-	Range add ($lzAdd$) when $lzSet$ equals 0: Simply add the new value to the pre-existing value. 

> -	Range add ($lzAdd$) when $lzSet$ doesn't equal to 0: Add the new value to $lzSet$ and clear $lzAdd$. 

Reviewer: > doesn't equal to 0

still hasn't been changed

Author: > > doesn't equal to 0
> 
> still hasn't been changed

Didn't u say that "doesn't equal to 0" is ok though? What should I change it to if this is not okay ?

Reviewer: "doesn't equal 0" was ok, "doesn't equal to 0" is not

-	Range set when $lzAdd$ equals 0: Simply update the $lzSet$ value. 

-	Range set when $lzAdd$ doesn't equal 0: Again simply update the $lzSet$ value since a set update will override all previous add update. 

Given the mechanics behind the ```pushdown``` function, all you need is a regular range sum segment tree to complete the question. 

```cpp

#include <iostream>

> #define int long long 

Reviewer: > #define int long long

why is this still here :/

Author: I replaced it with #define ll long long

Reviewer: As mentioned [here](https://usaco.guide/general/generic?lang=cpp#macros), `using ll = long long;` is preferred.

Also, please don't just make everything `ll` ...

Author: Fixed. On a side note would making everything long long be considered as a bad habit that I should avoid if I am sure that MLE is not going to be an issue for this particular problem.

Reviewer: well I guess it isn't that bad, but if you use different data types for the indices vs the values it's easy to see what you need to change if you want to use a different value type.

btw - the code now fails ...
<img width="508" alt="Screen Shot 2021-03-30 at 10 50 12 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/21228024/113009178-b9265480-9145-11eb-8c71-2ab96762b1f6.png">

Author: yea I realized that I overchanged long long variables back to int and caused overflow... I think thats how my habit of making all integers long long started. I tested again and it is AC this time.

	</Resource>
</Resources>

### Solution - Range Updates & Sums

<Spoiler title="Solution">

> This question asks you to support the following types of queries. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This question asks you to support the following types of queries:
```

> -	Add a value to all elements within the range $[a,b]$.

Reviewer 2: Change these tabs to single spaces for all list items

-	Set all values within the range $[a,b]$ to a certain value. 

-	Find the sum of all values in range $[a,b]$.

> Consider the first two types of queries, a lazy tag will be created in each node of the tree for each type. In this solution, $lzAdd$ will represent the lazy tag for the range add query and $lzSet$ will represent the lazy tag for the range set query. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider the first two types of queries. A lazy tag will be created in each node of the tree for each type. In this solution, $lzAdd$ will represent the lazy tag for the range add query and $lzSet$ will represent the lazy tag for the range set query. 
```

Also, it might look better if you do something like $\texttt{lzAdd}$ instead of just $lzAdd$, but either one is fine with me

> Given the two different update queries, a total of four different situations might take place as a result of any update. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given the two different types of update queries, a total of four different situations might take place after any update:
```

-	Range add when $lzSet$ equals 0: Simply add the new value to the pre-existing value. 

-	Range add when $lzSet$ doesn't equal 0: Add the new value to $lzSet$ and clear $lzAdd$. 

-	Range set when $lzAdd$ equals 0: Simply update the $lzSet$ value. 

> -	Range set when $lzAdd$ doesn't equal 0: Again simply update the $lzSet$ value since a set update will override all previous add updates. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	Range set when $lzAdd$ doesn't equal 0: Again, simply update the $lzSet$ value since a set update will override all previous add updates.
```

> Given the mechanics behind the ```pushdown``` function, all you need is a regular range sum segment tree to complete the question. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given the mechanics behind the `pushdown` function, all you need is a regular range-sum segment tree to solve the question. 
```

Author: All suggested changes are applied.

```cpp

#include <iostream>
using ll = long long;
using namespace std;
 
const int maxN = 2e5+5;
 
int N,Q;
int a[maxN];
 
struct node{
	ll val;
	ll lzAdd; 
	ll lzSet;
	node(){};
}tree[maxN<<2];
 
#define lc p<<1
#define rc (p<<1)+1
 
inline void pushup(int p){
	tree[p].val = tree[lc].val + tree[rc].val;
	return;
}
 
void pushdown(int p, ll l, ll mid, ll r){
	//lazy: range set
	if(tree[p].lzSet != 0){
		tree[lc].lzSet = tree[rc].lzSet = tree[p].lzSet;
		tree[lc].val = (mid-l+1) * tree[p].lzSet;
		tree[rc].val = (r-mid) * tree[p].lzSet;
		tree[lc].lzAdd = tree[rc].lzAdd = 0;
		tree[p].lzSet = 0;
	}
	else if(tree[p].lzAdd != 0){ //lazy: range add
		if(tree[lc].lzSet == 0)tree[lc].lzAdd += tree[p].lzAdd;
		else {
			tree[lc].lzSet += tree[p].lzAdd;
			tree[lc].lzAdd = 0;
		}
		if(tree[rc].lzSet == 0)tree[rc].lzAdd += tree[p].lzAdd;
		else{
			tree[rc].lzSet += tree[p].lzAdd;
			tree[rc].lzAdd = 0;
		}
		tree[lc].val += (mid-l+1) * tree[p].lzAdd * 1ll;
		tree[rc].val += (r-mid) * tree[p].lzAdd * 1ll;
		tree[p].lzAdd = 0;
	}
	return;
}
 

> void build(int p, ll l, ll r){

Reviewer: and here and above

Author: Updated.

Reviewer: what about in `pushdown`?

Author: Changed.

	tree[p].lzAdd = tree[p].lzSet = 0;
	if(l == r){
		tree[p].val = a[l];
		return;
	}
	ll mid = (l+r)>>1;
	build(lc,l,mid);
	build(rc,mid+1,r);
	pushup(p);
	return;
}
 

> void add(int p, ll l, ll r, int a, int b, int val){

Reviewer: `l` and `r` can be `int`s

Reviewer: ^ address this. Only `val` needs to be `ll`

	if(a > r || b < l)return;
	if(a <= l && r <= b){

> 		tree[p].val += (r-l+1) * val * 1ll;

Reviewer: this `1ll` at the end does nothing

Author: Unnecessary ```1ll```s removed.

		if(tree[p].lzSet == 0)tree[p].lzAdd += val;
		else tree[p].lzSet += val;
		return;
	}
	ll mid = (l+r)>>1;

>     pushdown(p,l,mid,r);

Author: Fixed.

	add(lc,l,mid,a,b,val);
	add(rc,mid+1,r,a,b,val);
	pushup(p);
	return;
}
 

> void set(int p, ll l, ll r, int a, int b, int val){

Reviewer: same for l,r here ...

	</Resource>
</Resources>

### Solution - Range Updates & Sums

<Spoiler title="Solution">

This question asks you to support the following types of queries. 

- Add a value to all elements within the range $[a,b]$

- Set all values within the range $[a,b]$ to a certain value 

- Find the sum of all values in range $[a,b]$

> Consider the first two types of queries, a lazy tag will be created in each node of the tree for each type. In this solution, $lz1$ will represent the lazy tag for the range add query and $lz2$ will represent the lazy tag for the range set query. 

Reviewer: would prefer more informative variable names (e.g. `lz_set, lz_add`) even though it makes the code longer

Author: I changed lz1 and lz2 to lzAdd and lzSet respectively.

Given the two different update queries, a total of four different situations might take place as a result of any update. 

- Range add ($lz1$) when $lz2$ equals 0: Simply add the new value to the pre-existing value 

> - Range add ($lz1$) when $lz2$ doesnt equal to 0: Add the new value to $lz2$ and clear $lz1$ 

Reviewer: > doesnt equal to 0

"is not equal to 0" or "doesn't equal 0" or $lz2\neq 0$ preferred

Author: Addressed.

Reviewer: Not addressed.

Author: Should be good now.

Reviewer: Not addressed.

> - Range set when $lz1$ equals 0: Simply update the $lz2$ value 

Reviewer: All sentences should end with periods.

Author: Problem addressed.

> -Range set when $lz1$ doesn't equal to 0: Again simply update the $lz2$ value since a set update will override all previous add updates 

Reviewer: > -Range

Did you check this in liveupdate?

Author: Yes I have checked this in liveupdate. The unordered list function works fine on my side.

Author: Typo on my part. Addressed.

> Given the mechanics behind the pushdown function, all you need is a regular range sum segment tree to complete the question. 

Reviewer: add backticks around pushdown like so: `pushdown`

Author: Addressed.

```cpp

#include <iostream>

> #define int long long

Reviewer: not a fan of this

Author: Problem addressed.

Reviewer: This was not changed.

		else{
			tree[rc].lzSet += tree[p].lzAdd;
			tree[rc].lzAdd = 0;
		}
		tree[lc].val += (tree[lc].r - tree[lc].l + 1) * tree[p].lzAdd;
		tree[rc].val += (tree[rc].r - tree[rc].l + 1) * tree[p].lzAdd;
		tree[p].lzAdd = 0;
	}
	return;
}
 
void build(int p, int l, int r){
	tree[p].l = l;
	tree[p].r = r;
	tree[p].lzAdd = tree[p].lzSet = 0;
	if(l == r){
		tree[p].val = a[l];
		return;
	}
	int mid = (l+r)>>1;
	build(lc,l,mid);
	build(rc,mid+1,r);
	pushup(p);
	return;
}
 
void add(int p, int l, int r, int a, int b, int val){
	if(a > r || b < l)return;
	if(a <= l && r <= b){
		tree[p].val += (tree[p].r - tree[p].l + 1) * val;
		if(tree[p].lzSet == 0)tree[p].lzAdd += val;
		else tree[p].lzSet += val;
		return;
	}
	pushdown(p);
	int mid = (l+r)>>1;
	add(lc,l,mid,a,b,val);
	add(rc,mid+1,r,a,b,val);
	pushup(p);
	return;
}
 
void set(int p, int l, int r, int a, int b, int val){
	if(a > r || b < l)return;
	if(a <= l && r <= b){
		tree[p].val = (tree[p].r - tree[p].l + 1) * val;
		tree[p].lzAdd = 0;
		tree[p].lzSet = val;
		return;
	}
	pushdown(p);
	int mid = (l+r)>>1;
	set(lc,l,mid,a,b,val);
	set(rc,mid+1,r,a,b,val);
	pushup(p);
	return;
}
 

> ll query(int p, int l, int r, int a, int b){

Reviewer: since you store `l` and `r` in `tree[p]`, you don't need to pass `l` and `r` as arguments to this function

Author: True. Should I change this or is this just for future reference ?

Reviewer: change

Author: I removed ```l``` and ```r``` in each node of the tree to minimize unnecessary redundancy.

    if(a > r || b < l)return 0;
    if(a <= l && r <= b)return tree[p].val;
    pushdown(p);
    int mid = (l+r)>>1;
    return query(lc,l,mid,a,b) + query(rc,mid+1,r,a,b);
}

signed main(){
    ios_base::sync_with_stdio(false);
    cin.tie(0);
    cin >> N >> Q;
    for(int i = 1; i <= N; ++i)cin >> a[i];
    build(1,1,N);
    for(int i = 1; i <= Q; ++i){
        int k; cin >> k;
        int a,b,x;
        if(k == 1){
            cin >> a >> b >> x;
            add(1,1,N,a,b,x);
        }
        if(k == 2){
            cin >> a >> b >> x;
            set(1,1,N,a,b,x);
        }
        if(k == 3){
            cin >> a >> b;
            int res = query(1,1,N,a,b);

>             cout << res << endl;

Reviewer: `endl` may flush the output, use `\n`

Author: Problem addressed.
